<h1>Part 1: Goals</h1><p>For a complete table of contents of all the lessons please click below as it will give you a brief of each lesson in addition to the topics it will cover. https://github.com/mytechnotalent/Reverse-Engineering-Tutorial</p><p>Essential to the discussion of basic reverse engineering is the concept of modern malware analysis. Malware analysis is the understanding and examination of information necessary to respond to a network intrusion.</p><p>This short tutorial will begin with the basic concepts of malware reverse engineering and graduate to an entry-level basic examination of Assembly Language.</p><p>The keys to the kingdom so to speak are rooted in the break-down of the respective suspected malware binary and how to find it on your network and ultimately to contain it.</p><p>Upon full identification of the files required for deeper analysis, it is critical to develop signatures to detect malware infections throughout your network whether it be a home based LAN or complex corporate WAN to which malware analysis is necessary to develop host-based and network signatures.</p><p>To begin with the concept of a host-based signature, we need to understand that these are utilized to find malicious code in a target machine. Host-based signatures are also referred to as indicators which can identify files created or edited by the infected code which can make hidden changes to a computers registry. This is quite in contrast with antivirus signatures because these concentrate on what the malware actually does rather than the make-up of the malware which makes them more effective in finding malware that can migrate or has been removed from the media.</p><p>In contrast, network signatures are used to find malicious code by examining network traffic. It is important to note such tools as WireShark and the like are often effective in such analysis.</p><p>Upon identification of these aforementioned signatures, the next step is to identify what the malware is actually doing.</p><p><strong>UNDER NO CONDITIONS ARE YOU TO EVER USE THIS EDUCATION TO CAUSE HARM TO ANY SYSTEM OF ANY KIND AS I AM NOT RESPONSIBLE! THIS IS FOR LEARNING PURPOSES ONLY!</strong></p><p>In our next lesson we will discuss techniques of malware analysis.</p>