<h1>Part 8 - CPSR</h1><p>For a complete table of contents of all the lessons please click below as it will give you a brief of each lesson in addition to the topics it will cover. https://github.com/mytechnotalent/Reverse-Engineering-Tutorial</p><p>The CPSR register stores information about the program and the results of a particular operation. Bits that are in the respective registers have pre-assigned conditions that are tested for an occurrence which are flags.</p><p>There are 32-bits that total this register. The highest 4 we are concerned with most which are:</p><p>Bit 31 – N = Negative Flag</p><p>Bit 30 – Z = Zero Flag</p><p>Bit 29 – C = Carry Flag (UNSIGNED OPERATIONS)</p><p>Bit 28 – V = Overflow flag (SIGNED OPERATIONS)</p><p>When the instruction completes the CPSR can get updated if it falls into one of the aforementioned scenarios. If one of the conditions occurs, a 1 goes into the respective bits.</p><p>There are two instructions that directly effect the CPSR flags which are CMP and CMN. CMP is compare such as:</p><pre spellcheck="false">CMP R1, R0 @ notational subtraction where R1 – R0 and if the result is 0, bit 30 Z would be set to 1
</pre><p>The most logical command that usually follows is BEQ = branch if equal, meaning the zero flag was set and branches to another label within the code.</p><p>Regarding CMP, if two operands are equal then the result is zero. CMN makes the same comparison but with the second operand negated for example:</p><pre spellcheck="false">CMN R1, R0 @ R1 - (-R0) or R1 + R0
</pre><p>When dealing with the SUB command, the result would NOT update the CPSR you would have to use the SUBS command to make any flag update respectively.</p><p>Next week we will dive into more information on the Link Register! Stay tuned!</p>